GSoC contributor blog for Unreleased Production changes probe (#6507)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/07/02/2023-07-02-unreleased-production-changes-probe.adoc

---
layout: post
title: Unreleased Production Changes Probe
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2023
- healthscore
- probes
- plugin
authors:
- jagruti
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2023/jagruti/blog_20230702.png
sig:
- gsoc
---

> == Introduction

Reviewer: Since this is a blogpost, it would be useful to give some context: mention that you're building this as part of a GSoC project, add a link to your project description.

> Unreleased production changes probe looks for unreleased commits in the production files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The "unreleased production changes" probe looks for unreleased commits in the production files.
```
reads a bit different without the quotes.

> If an unreleased file is found in the production path, the probe returns a failure message. If no unreleased file is found, it returns a success message.

Reviewer 3: You can ignore this.

```suggestion
If an unreleased file is found in the production path, the probe returns a failure message.
If no unreleased file is found, it returns a success message.
```

The probe commenced during the GSoC acceptance waiting period.

This is my first probe that went live as a GSoC contributor.

== Importance of the probe
Finding an unreleased production file can mean one or more of the following:

* The plugin may have undelivered bug fixes.
* The plugin may have stale features.

> * The maintainer of the plugin maybe inactive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The maintainer of the plugin may be inactive.
```

> * The maintainer of the plugin maybe inactive.

Reviewer 3: I feel it would be better to tell the story here rather than listing items.

Author: Thank you for suggesting the story thing. It makes the blog more interesting to read.

== Probe details
The probe aims to identify unreleased production commits in `src/main` directory and `pom.xml` file.

> 

Reviewer 3: This could be removed and included in the `Importance of the probe` section.

== Challenges

> Implementing https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements Git version control system was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe. Also, I was not familiar with Git hierarchy. I struggled to find the parent of a child commit using JGit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Implementing https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements Git version control system was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe.
Also, I was not familiar with Git, how the commits are linked together.
Because of that, I struggled to find the parent of a child commit using JGit.
```

> Implementing https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements Git version control system was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe.

Reviewer: To me "implementing JGit" sounds like you've done some changes to JGit. Maybe "learning to use JGit" would describe the challenge better?

> In the end, my mentors suggested a pair programming session. We rewrote the probe together. I am thankful to their kindness and patience.

Reviewer 3: Ignore if you want

```suggestion
In the end, my mentors suggested a pair programming session in order to review thinking process involved in implementing such probe.
I am thankful to their kindness and patience.
```

> == Challenges
> Implementing https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements Git version control system was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe. Also, I was not familiar with Git hierarchy. I struggled to find the parent of a child commit using JGit.
> 
> In the end, my mentors suggested a pair programming session. We rewrote the probe together. I am thankful to their kindness and patience.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
== Challenges
Implementing link:https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements a Git version control system, was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe.
Since I was not familiar with Git hierarchy, I struggled to find the parent of a child commit using JGit.

In the end, my mentors suggested a pair programming session to review the thinking process involved in implementing such a probe.
I am thankful for their kindness and patience.
```
suggestion to update syntax so that the sentence reads smoothly

== Outcome

> In the case when unreleased production files are found, the probe returns a list with their names and a failure message is returned. In the case when no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case when unreleased production files are found, the probe returns a list with their names, and an overall failure message is returned. In the case when no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.
```
optional

Reviewer 3: Not quite
```suggestion
In the case when unreleased production files are found, the probe returns failure status and the list of files name.
In the case when no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.
```

> In the case when unreleased production files are found, the probe returns a list with their names and a failure message is returned. In the case when no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When unreleased production files are found, the probe returns a failure status and the list of filenames.
When no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.
```
suggestion to remove the "In the case" and start sentences sooner.

== Learning
* Learned to figure out unit test cases and implemented them.
* Implemented JGit Java library.

> * Understood Git commit hierarchy.

Reviewer 3: Same as before, telling the story rather than listing the items could be better.

== Conclusion

> 

Reviewer 3: To be coherent with the rest of the document

```suggestion
```

> I once again realised that open-source world values quality. They are fine with fewer quality probes than many not so useful probes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I once again realised that the open-source world values quality. They are fine with fewer "quality" probes than many "not-so-useful" probes.
```
optional (feel free to ignore): but "fewer quality probes" kind of reads like "they are okay with probes with fewer quality".

Reviewer 3: With a new line after the end of the sentence ;)

> Starting from ground zero is tough. Be it implementing a new Java library or starting new work in some other field. With correct mentorship and guidance you can rise up faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting from ground zero is tough.
Be it implementing a new Java library or starting new work in some other field.
With correct mentorship and guidance you can rise up faster.
```

> I once again realised that open-source world values quality. They are fine with fewer quality probes than many not so useful probes.
> 
> Starting from ground zero is tough. Be it implementing a new Java library or starting new work in some other field. With correct mentorship and guidance you can rise up faster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I once again realised the open-source world values quality.
The community is fine with fewer "quality" probes, as oposed to many "not-so-useful" probes.

Starting from ground zero is tough, whether implementing a new Java library or starting new work in another field.
However, with correct mentorship and guidance, you can rise up faster.
```
suggestion to make the sentences read a bit better/update syntax

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: post
title: Unreleased Production Changes Probe
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2023
- healthscore
- probes
- plugin
authors:
- jagruti
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2023/jagruti/blog_20230702.png
sig:
- gsoc
---

== Introduction

> A bug fix, security fix, new features are of no use unless they are released.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A bug fix, security fix, or new features are of no use unless they are released.
```
Suggestion to add a word for readability

> A production release not only provides users with updated plugin but also give the developers a chance to get feedback on their work.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A production release not only provides users with an updated plugin, but also gives the developers a chance to get feedback on their work.
```
suggestions for syntax & punctuation

The "unreleased production changes" probe looks for unreleased commits in the production files.

If an unreleased file is found in the production path, the probe returns a failure message.
If no unreleased file is found, it returns a success message.

> NOTE: for now, we are focusing on Maven production files (`pom.xml` and `src/main` folder). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: For now, we are focusing on Maven production files (`pom.xml` and `src/main` folder). 
```
suggestion for capitalization

This is my first probe that went live as a GSoC contributor.

== Importance of the probe
The probe aims to identify unreleased production commits in  Maven production files.

Finding an unreleased production file can mean one or more of the following:

* There might be unreleased security fixes that should be released as soon as possible.
* There might be unreleased features requested by active users to improve the usefulness of the plugin.

> * One of the reasons for unreleased production changes could be an inactive or a super busy maintainer. This means the plugin needs a new maintainer, and it should be up for adoption.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The plugin maintainer may be inactive or too busy to further develop the plugin.
This can indicate the plugin needs a new maintainer, and it should be up for adoption.
```
Suggestion to rephrase to make this more inline with the two previous statements. If this is not the intended message, disregard!

== Challenges
Learning to use link:https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements a Git version control system, was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe.

Since I was not familiar with Git hierarchy, I struggled to find the parent of a child commit using JGit.

In the end, my mentors suggested a pair programming session to review the thinking process involved in implementing such a probe.

I am thankful for their kindness and patience.

== Outcome
When unreleased production files are found, the probe returns a failure status and the list of filenames.

When no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.

== Learning

> I hope there comes a day when test cases becomes my friends. But I don't see this happening anytime soon.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I hope there comes a day when test cases becomes my friends, but I don't see this happening anytime soon.
```
suggestion for punctuation/sentence structure

> Mentors suggested I should start with writing the test cases to reproduce the probe requirement. And later add code to pass each of the test cases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Mentors suggested I should start with writing the test cases to reproduce the probe requirement, and later add code to pass each of the test cases.
```
suggestion for sentence structure

> This gave me understanding of what the probe should actually do. And I learned to identify the test case scenarios.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This gave me an understanding of what the probe should actually do, and I learned to identify the test case scenarios.
```
suggestion for sentence structure/syntax

Reading commits wasn't possible without JGit Java library.

> To implement JGit library and understand the features it provides, you should have strong understanding of Git concepts. I lacked depth in Git concepts that made me struggle with JGit.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To implement JGit library and understand the features it provides, you should have strong understanding of Git concepts.
I lacked depth in Git concepts that made me struggle with JGit.
```
suggestion for document formatting

This led me to strengthen the Git concepts along the way.

== Conclusion
I once again realised the open-source world values quality.

The community is fine with fewer "quality" probes, as opposed to many "not-so-useful" probes.

Starting from ground zero is tough, whether implementing a new Java library or starting new work in another field.

However, with correct mentorship and guidance, you can rise up faster.

== Links

> For more information or to find answers to any questions you might have, head to the official GSoC 2023 project link:https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/projects/add-probes-to-plugin-health-score/[Adding Probes to  "Plugin Health Score"] description page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information or to find answers to any questions you might have, head to the official GSoC 2023 project link:/projects/gsoc/2023/projects/add-probes-to-plugin-health-score/[Adding Probes to  "Plugin Health Score"] description page.
```
suggestion to use a direct link, as this would be on the existing site and does not need the full URL.
